the Book of Ezekiel now it came to pass
in the 30th year in the fourth month on
the fifth day of the month as I was
among the captives by the river key bar
that the heavens were opened and I saw
visions of God on the fifth day of the
month which was in the fifth year of
King Jay Hawkins captivity the word of
the lord came expressly to ezekiel the
priest the son of booze i in the land of
the Chaldeans by the river Kiba and the
hand of the Lord was upon him there then
I looked and behold a whirlwind was
coming out of the north a great cloud
with raging fire engulfing itself and
brightness was all around it and
radiating out of its midst like the
color of amber out of the midst of the
fire
also from within it came the likeness of
four living creatures and this was their
appearance they had the likeness of a
man each one had four faces and each one
had four wings their legs were straight
and the soles of their feet were like
the soles of calves feet they sparkled
like the color of burnished bronze
the hands of man were under their wings
on their four sides and each of the four
had faces and wings their wings touched
one another the creatures did not turn
when they went but each one went
straight forward as for the likeness of
their faces each had the face of a man
each of the four had the face of a lion
on the right side each of the four had
the face of an ox on the left side and
each of the four had the face of an
eagle
thus were their faces their wings
stretched upward two wings of each one
touched one another and two covered
their bodies and each one went straight
forward they went wherever the spirit
wanted to go and they did not turn when
they went as for the likeness of the
living creatures their appearance was
like burning coals of fire like the
appearance of torches going back and
forth among the living creatures the
fire was bright and out of the fire with
lightning
and the living creatures ran back and
forth in appearance like a flash of
lightning
[Music]
now as I looked at the living creatures
behold a wheel was on the earth beside
each living creature with its four faces
the appearance of the wheels and their
workings was like the colour of Burrill
and all four had the same likeness the
appearance of their workings was as it
were a wheel in the middle of a wheel
when they moved they went toward any one
of four directions they did not turn
aside when they went as for their rims
they were so high they were awesome and
their rims were full of eyes all around
the four of them
when the living creatures went the
wheels went beside them and when the
living creatures were lifted up from the
earth the wheels were lifted up wherever
the spirit wanted to go they went
because there the Spirit went and the
wheels were lifted together with them
for the spirit of the living creatures
was in the wheels when those went these
went when those stood these stood and
when those were lifted up from the earth
the wheels were lifted up together with
them for the spirit of the living
creatures was in the wheels
[Music]
the likeness of the firmament above the
heads of the living creatures was like
the color of an awesome crystal
stretched out over their heads and under
the firmament their wings spread out
straight one toward another each one had
to which covered one side and each one
had to which covered the other side of
the body when they went I heard the
noise of their wings like the noise of
many waters like the voice of the
Almighty
a tumult like the noise of an army and
when they stood still they let down
their wings a voice came from above the
firmament that was over their heads
whenever they stood they let down their
wings and above the firmament over their
heads was the likeness of a throne in
appearance like a sapphire stone on the
likeness of the throne
was a lightness with the appearance of a
man high above it also from the
appearance of his waist and upward I saw
as it were the color of amber with the
appearance of fire all around within it
and from the appearance of his waist and
downward I saw as it were the appearance
of fire with brightness all around like
the appearance of a rainbow in a cloud
on a rainy day so was the appearance of
the brightness all around it
this was the appearance of the lightness
of the glory of the Lord so when I saw
it
[Music]
I fell on my face and I heard a voice of
one speaking
[Music]